MORBIDITY AND MORTALITY CONFERENCE
CASE# **ID-NUM ( LC )
This patient is a **AGE[in 60s]- year - old female who presented to the Emergency Department with a two - week history of nausea , vomiting as well as a two - month history of shortness of breath .
The patient was previously admitted a week ago and found to have a loculated pleural effusion on CT scan .
The patient ; however , was minimally symptomatic and was able to be discharged and further outpatient workup of the effusion was ordered .
The patient , on admission describes that her last bowel movement was that day ; however , she did have persistent nausea and vomiting , which she describes as bilious in nature and also complained of increasing abdominal girth , and right lower quadrant pain .
The patient denied fever , chills or night sweats and also denied loss of appetite .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Positive for hypertension as well as gastroesophageal reflux .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Positive for Cesarean section , cholecystectomy and appendectomy .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Negative for inflammatory bowel disease .
CURRENT MEDICATIONS :
Included Pepcid as well as Vicodin and Phenergan .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient is married .
She has a 20 - pack - year history of cigarettes ; however , she did quit 30 years ago .
Denies alcohol or drugs and she is married .
On initial evaluation , the patient 's vital signs were 130/79 , respirations 20 , temperature 99.1 , heart rate 95 .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient 's abdomen was soft .
The patient is somewhat obese .
There is no guarding , no rebound , no tenderness .
Bowel sounds are present in all four quadrants .
There is no borborygmi , no hepatosplenomegaly .
INITIAL LABORATORY :
Was as follows :
White blood cells 8.6 , hemoglobin 9.8 , hematocrit 29.7 and platelets 382 .
She had no significant findings on her differential .
The patient 's glucose was 188 , BUN 5 , creatinine 0.6 , sodium 136 , potassium 4 , chloride 99 , C02 29 , calcium 8.3 , magnesium 1.7 .
A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis was ordered , which did show a loculated pleural effusion in the right hemithorax .
Also , the CT scan demonstrated circumferential wall thickening of a loop of small bowel in the right abdomen .
The again was repeated two days later with the same findings .
The lesion appeared not to be completely obstructing the lumen ; however , there were dilated loops of bowel proximal to this lesion , thus a small bowel obstruction was present .
There was no adenopathy demonstrated on CT scan and no free air and no free fluid .
The patient was then taken for a diagnostic laparoscopy .
The diagnostic laparoscopy was performed approximately one week later .
The loculated pleural effusion , which had been thoroughly evaluated by the thoracic surgery service , was felt to be possibly of a malignant nature and it was felt that this patient would be better served by further investigation of the small bowel prior to any surgical intervention of the pleural effusion .
The diagnostic laparoscopy demonstrated an area of very inflamed solid circumferential mass approximately 15 cm proximal to the ileocecal junction .
This was approximately 8.9 cm in length with a circumference of 5.5 cm .
An on block resection was performed of this lesion including the adjacent mesentery and sent for pathology .
The patient underwent an interim anastomosis and further exploration of the abdomen revealed a normal liver and no other frank lesions .
The patient went on to have somewhat of an unremarkable postoperative course ; however , the patient did continue to have shortness of breath from the right pleural effusion .
The pathology report revealed a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with transmural invasion of the small bowel into the peri - intestinal adipose tissue and with perforation of the visceral peritoneal surface .
Four out of the nine peri - intestinal lymph nodes were positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma and the patient was staged at a T4 ( N1MXG3 ) .
It was felt at this time by the surgical thoracic surgery service that this patient may very well not be served by decortication of the loculated pleural effusion and she was offered to be discharged with outpatient follow up .
Hematology / Oncology saw the patient while in house and recommended chemotherapy to start in approximately three weeks with the use of FOLFOX and FOLFIRI .
The patient was offered FOLFOX for four weeks postop .
It was felt however , that this patient 's prognosis could best be characterized by approximately four to six months .
ZK/ra
**DATE[May 22 2007]
