Diagnoses :
1. discoid SLE
2. tachycardia , multifactorial
3. hidranitis suppurativa
4. avascular necrosis with degenerative joint disease
HPI :
**AGE[in 40s] yo F with SLE and medical non-compliance presents with joint pain , generalized weakness , and multiple skin lesions .
Hospital course :
CV - Tachycardia that is likely multifactorial due to pain , infection , anxiety , and fluid losses from skin lesions .
SHe received multiple fluid boluses and her BP remained stable .
Rheum - Untreated SLE with discoid lesions .
Rheumatology service saw patient and started her on plaquenil and medrol .
On day of transfer , the medrol was changed to prednisone .
She began to feel better overall but still has some fatigue .
SHe has some R knee pain that was evaluated by rheum but was not suspected to be septic .
She is to follow up in 2 weeks as outpatient with Dr. **NAME[VVV UUU] in the **INSTITUTION .
ID - She presented with low grade fevers and was placed empirically on unasyn .
She was changed over to po Augmentin and received 8 days .
She had negative blood and urine cultures and was treated for hidradenitis suppurative of her breasts +/- superinfection of her skin lesions .
She remains afebrile with decreasing leukocytosis .
Derm - Pt has multiple skin findings , including discoid lesions , keratoderma of her feet , hidradenitis suppurative of her breasts and buttocks .
She completed 8d of antibiotics and is on a dermatological regimen with improvement .
She will require sun protection ( UVA and UVB ) when discharged .
GI - She has heme + stools and is iron deficient .
Her H/H remained stable and she did not require transfusions nor had any melena while admitted .
She was placed on a PPI .
SHe will require outpatient followup for endoscopy .
Neuro - She still complains of some weakness but is making progress with physical therapy and requires longer rehab .
Endo - She was started on 50 mcg synthroid as her TFT s showed hypothyroidism .
Medications : dilaudid 1 mg IV q4h prn
tylenol 650 mg po q4h prn
urea 20% top to feet BID x 2 weeks
silver sulfadiazene top to open areas BID
senna 1 po BID
protonix 40 po qday
MVI 1 po qday
prednisone 10 mg po qday
synthroid 50 mcg po qday
plaquenil 200 mg po BID
heparin 5000 units SQ q8h
FeSO4 300 mg po TID c meals
docusate 100mg po qday
clobetasol top 0.05% to ears BID
ciclopirox top top to feet x 2 weeks BID
ammonium lactate top to feet BID
hibiclens wash to buttocks and udner breasts daily
clindamycin 1% lotion to buttocks , under breasts BID
diet : regular with boost plus BID with meals
activity : as tolerated .
Perform by **NAME[XXX , WWW]
( on **DATE[May 05 2007] 16:42 )
